README.md, before:

# Google Place Picker

A Google Maps Place Picker for Flutter apps

> A flutter package to simplify implementation of picking places from google maps and using the information in app.

- Easy Implementation
- Saves time on development
- Awesome Package
- Quick to deploy

## Follow Me

[![GitHub followers](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/ComputerMaverick69?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69) [![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker) [![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker) [![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/google_place_picker)](https://pub.dev/packages/google_place_picker)

## Features

- Pick place on google map
- Search specific location or address
- Use the GPS and the current location
- Fully customizable
- Connectivity handling
- Permissions handling

## Demo Preview
![](preview/Google-Place-Picker-Demo.gif)

## Getting Started

- Get an API key at <https://cloud.google.com/maps-platform/>.

- Enable Google Map SDK for each platform.
  - Go to [Google Developers Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
  - Choose the project that you want to enable Google Maps on.
  - Select the navigation menu and then select "Google Maps".
  - Select "APIs" under the Google Maps menu.
  - To enable Google Maps for Android, select "Maps SDK for Android" in the "Additional APIs" section, then select "ENABLE".
  - To enable Google Maps for iOS, select "Maps SDK for iOS" in the "Additional APIs" section, then select "ENABLE".
  - Make sure the APIs you enabled are under the "Enabled APIs" section.

For more details, see [Getting started with Google Maps Platform](https://developers.google.com/maps/gmp-get-started).

### Android

1. Set the `minSdkVersion` in `android/app/build.gradle`:

```groovy
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdkVersion 20
    }
}
```

This means that app will only be available for users that run Android SDK 20 or higher.

> 2.  Make sure you set the `compileSdkVersion` in your "android/app/build.gradle" file as per your preference. Mine is 31:
>
> ```
> android {
>  compileSdkVersion 31
>
>  ...
> }
> ```

3. Specify your API key in the application manifest `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<manifest ...
  <application ...
    <meta-data android:name="com.google.android.geo.API_KEY"
               android:value="YOUR_KEY_HERE"/>
```

> 4.  Add the following to your "gradle.properties" file:
>
> ```
> android.useAndroidX=true
> android.enableJetifier=true
> ```

> 5.  Make sure you replace all the `android.` dependencies to their AndroidX counterparts (a full list can be found [Android migration guide](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/migrate)).

### iOS

To set up, specify your API key in the application delegate `ios/Runner/AppDelegate.m`:

Specify your API key in the application delegate `ios/Runner/AppDelegate.swift`:

```swift
import UIKit
import Flutter
import GoogleMaps
@UIApplicationMain
@objc class AppDelegate: FlutterAppDelegate {
  override func application(
    _ application: UIApplication,
    didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?
  ) -> Bool {
    GMSServices.provideAPIKey("YOUR KEY HERE")
    GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: self)
    return super.application(application, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: launchOptions)
  }
}
```

On iOS you'll need to add the following entries to your Info.plist file (located under ios/Runner) in order to access the device's location.

Simply open your Info.plist file and add the following:

```xml
<key>NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when open.</string>
<key>NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when in the background.</string>
<key>NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when open and in the background.</string>
```

In addition, you need to add the `Background Modes` capability to your XCode project (Project > Signing and Capabilties > "+ Capability" button) and select `Location Updates`.g>This app needs access to location when open and in the background.</string>

Opt-in to the embedded views preview by adding a boolean property to the app's `Info.plist` file
with the key `io.flutter.embedded_views_preview` and the value `YES`.

```xml
<key>io.flutter.embedded_views_preview</key>
<true/>
```

## Usage

### Basic usage

You can use PlacePicker by pushing to a new page using Navigator, OR put as a child of any widget.
When the user picks a place on the map, it will return result to 'getResult' with FullAddress type.

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:google_maps_pick_place/google_maps_pick_place.dart';

// ...
Navigator.push(
      context,
      MaterialPageRoute(
        builder: (context) => GoogleMapsPickPlace(
          apiKey: "YOU GOOGLE MAPS API KEY",
          getResult: (FullAddress result) {
            print('${result.address}');
            /// Don't use Navigator.of(context).pop() it's build in the method
          },
        ),
      ),
    );
```

### Note

> Searching for a place feature needs a paid google map api key.
> With free key map and picking a place feature will work correctly without any error.
> But searching for a place feature will not work.

### Google Maps Pick Place Properties

| Parameter              | Type                   | Description                                                                |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| apiKey                 | String                 | Google Map Api Token                                                       |
| mapLocale            | MapLocale               | map's language used in search and other widgets                            |
| getAddress              | Function(CompleteAddress)? | Method of Getting the address and position                                 |
| initialPosition        | LatLng                 | Initial position of the map in case there's no location and GPS is off     |
| enableMyLocationButton | bool                   | Enable or disable the My Location button                                   |
| enableSearchButton     | bool                   | Enable or disable the Search button                                        |
| loader                 | Widget                 | Widget to show while the map is loading                                    |
| doneButton             | Widget?                | Widget to show when the map is done loading and apply getResult method     |
| errorButton            | Widget?                | Widget to show when there's a corruption or there's no internet connection |
| zoomFactor             | double                 | Zoom factor of the map (default is 5.0)                                    |
| markerColor            | MarkerColor            | Marker color of the map (default is red)                                   |

### CompleteAddress Properties

| Parameter | Type      | Description             |
| --------- | --------- | ----------------------- |
| address   | String?   | Formatted address       |
| position  | Position? | Position of the address |

### This package supports all platforms listed below.
platforms:
  android:
  ios:


## License

MIT

Commit message:

added sponsors section to readme

README.md, after:

# Google Place Picker

A Google Maps Place Picker for Flutter apps

> A flutter package to simplify implementation of picking places from google maps and using the information in app.

- Easy Implementation
- Saves time on development
- Awesome Package
- Quick to deploy

## Follow Me

[![GitHub followers](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/ComputerMaverick69?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69) [![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker) [![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker?style=social)](https://github.com/ComputerMaverick69/Google-Place-Picker) [![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/google_place_picker)](https://pub.dev/packages/google_place_picker)

## Features

- Pick place on google map
- Search specific location or address
- Use the GPS and the current location
- Fully customizable
- Connectivity handling
- Permissions handling

## Demo Preview

![](preview/Google-Place-Picker-Demo.gif)

## Getting Started

- Get an API key at <https://cloud.google.com/maps-platform/>.

- Enable Google Map SDK for each platform.
  - Go to [Google Developers Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
  - Choose the project that you want to enable Google Maps on.
  - Select the navigation menu and then select "Google Maps".
  - Select "APIs" under the Google Maps menu.
  - To enable Google Maps for Android, select "Maps SDK for Android" in the "Additional APIs" section, then select "ENABLE".
  - To enable Google Maps for iOS, select "Maps SDK for iOS" in the "Additional APIs" section, then select "ENABLE".
  - Make sure the APIs you enabled are under the "Enabled APIs" section.

For more details, see [Getting started with Google Maps Platform](https://developers.google.com/maps/gmp-get-started).

### Android

1. Set the `minSdkVersion` in `android/app/build.gradle`:

```groovy
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdkVersion 20
    }
}
```

This means that app will only be available for users that run Android SDK 20 or higher.

> 2.  Make sure you set the `compileSdkVersion` in your "android/app/build.gradle" file as per your preference. Mine is 31:
>
> ```
> android {
>  compileSdkVersion 31
>
>  ...
> }
> ```

3. Specify your API key in the application manifest `android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<manifest ...
  <application ...
    <meta-data android:name="com.google.android.geo.API_KEY"
               android:value="YOUR_KEY_HERE"/>
```

> 4.  Add the following to your "gradle.properties" file:
>
> ```
> android.useAndroidX=true
> android.enableJetifier=true
> ```

> 5.  Make sure you replace all the `android.` dependencies to their AndroidX counterparts (a full list can be found [Android migration guide](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/migrate)).

### iOS

To set up, specify your API key in the application delegate `ios/Runner/AppDelegate.m`:

Specify your API key in the application delegate `ios/Runner/AppDelegate.swift`:

```swift
import UIKit
import Flutter
import GoogleMaps
@UIApplicationMain
@objc class AppDelegate: FlutterAppDelegate {
  override func application(
    _ application: UIApplication,
    didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?
  ) -> Bool {
    GMSServices.provideAPIKey("YOUR KEY HERE")
    GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: self)
    return super.application(application, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: launchOptions)
  }
}
```

On iOS you'll need to add the following entries to your Info.plist file (located under ios/Runner) in order to access the device's location.

Simply open your Info.plist file and add the following:

```xml
<key>NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when open.</string>
<key>NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when in the background.</string>
<key>NSLocationAlwaysAndWhenInUseUsageDescription</key>
<string>This app needs access to location when open and in the background.</string>
```

In addition, you need to add the `Background Modes` capability to your XCode project (Project > Signing and Capabilties > "+ Capability" button) and select `Location Updates`.g>This app needs access to location when open and in the background.</string>

Opt-in to the embedded views preview by adding a boolean property to the app's `Info.plist` file
with the key `io.flutter.embedded_views_preview` and the value `YES`.

```xml
<key>io.flutter.embedded_views_preview</key>
<true/>
```

## Usage

### Basic usage

You can use PlacePicker by pushing to a new page using Navigator, OR put as a child of any widget.
When the user picks a place on the map, it will return result to 'getResult' with FullAddress type.

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:google_maps_pick_place/google_maps_pick_place.dart';

// ...
Navigator.push(
      context,
      MaterialPageRoute(
        builder: (context) => GoogleMapsPickPlace(
          apiKey: "YOU GOOGLE MAPS API KEY",
          getResult: (FullAddress result) {
            print('${result.address}');
            /// Don't use Navigator.of(context).pop() it's build in the method
          },
        ),
      ),
    );
```

### Note

> Searching for a place feature needs a paid google map api key.
> With free key map and picking a place feature will work correctly without any error.
> But searching for a place feature will not work.

### Google Maps Pick Place Properties

| Parameter              | Type                       | Description                                                                |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| apiKey                 | String                     | Google Map Api Token                                                       |
| mapLocale              | MapLocale                  | map's language used in search and other widgets                            |
| getAddress             | Function(CompleteAddress)? | Method of Getting the address and position                                 |
| initialPosition        | LatLng                     | Initial position of the map in case there's no location and GPS is off     |
| enableMyLocationButton | bool                       | Enable or disable the My Location button                                   |
| enableSearchButton     | bool                       | Enable or disable the Search button                                        |
| loader                 | Widget                     | Widget to show while the map is loading                                    |
| doneButton             | Widget?                    | Widget to show when the map is done loading and apply getResult method     |
| errorButton            | Widget?                    | Widget to show when there's a corruption or there's no internet connection |
| zoomFactor             | double                     | Zoom factor of the map (default is 5.0)                                    |
| markerColor            | MarkerColor                | Marker color of the map (default is red)                                   |

### CompleteAddress Properties

| Parameter | Type      | Description             |
| --------- | --------- | ----------------------- |
| address   | String?   | Formatted address       |
| position  | Position? | Position of the address |

### This package supports all platforms listed below.

platforms:
android:
ios:

## License

MIT

## Sponsors
[Timmy Iwoni](https://twitter.com/codemaverick69)
[Reconnaissance Technologies](https://reconnaissancetechnologies.com)
